---
layout: page
title: Contract Demands
---

__Cost Of Living Adjustment (COLA):__ Skyrocketing housing costs and decades of underpayment have made it so student-workers are severely rent-burdened. We demand that our wages be increased so that no student-worker in the UC system is rent-burdened or housing-insecure. We believe that this is a housing issue that can be best solved through wages. And so, while we support rent caps on university housing across the system, ultimately increased wages will benefit all workers regardless of whether or not they live on or off campus. 

__Cops Off Campus:__ Since they have existed, universities in the United States have deeply invested in policing and destroying the surrounding communities. Campus-based police departments such as UCPD are a more recent development, and one that overlaps with institutional efforts to suppress radical action and organizing, particularly that of Black students, workers, and activists. In recent years, these campus-based police departments have become increasingly militarized; while enrollment and tuition costs have increased exponentially, police presence and budgets have too.

We see the contract as a tool to limit the everyday violence of police on campus. Every year, over 1,000 people in the so-called United States are killed by police, while ICE continues to break up families through incarceration or deportation. We must do everything we can to stop these and other forms of state violence.  At the same time, we recognize that no contract can immediately change social relations that have been foundationally built on violence. In that case, we recognize the need and are committed to maintaining strong communities both off and on campus. This means providing resources for everyone who requires them, from student-workers to our houseless neighbors. It also means creating networks of care based on mutual aid and transformative justice that would make the police unnecessary to begin with.

__Ending Harassment:__ Student-workers have the right to not face oppression and unfair treatment, including supervisor abuse and harassment. For Academic Student Employees, the current contract doesn’t go far enough to protect workers, with no protections for power-based and online harassment and the university unilaterally deciding interim protection measures. A strong contract should place survivors’ agency first, allowing them to decide interim protection measures.

__Guaranteed Funding:__ Student-workers shouldn’t anxiously wait until days before the next quarter to know whether they will be paid. For graduate student-workers, including masters students, funding, including summer funding, should be provided upon admission and cover every quarter for the duration of the degree.

__Justice for Undergraduate Workers:__ Undergraduate workers are currently at the bottom of the academic employment ladder, with poor job security and few employment benefits. We demand a contract with actual job security protections for undergraduate workers, that doesn’t allow the university to replace their pay with class credit. Additionally, undergraduate workers shouldn’t pay tuition while they work at the university.

__Protecting the Right to Strike:__ In the traditional bargaining model, labor unions exchange the right to strike with an arbitration-backed grievance process. These exchanges disproportionately favor management, and our right to strike must be protected in the contract. As an example, we look toward ILWU, which conducted an on-contract strike for Juneteenth and refused to unload cargo associated with Israeli Apartheid.

__Open-Access Publishing:__ The work produced by student researchers shouldn’t be locked behind corporate and academic paywalls. With textbook costs rising, we believe that UC should transition more aggressively to open-source and access publishing, with the broader community benefiting from the work we produce. Student-workers should also retain intellectual property rights from their produced works.

__Divestment:__ For years, student, worker, and community activists have been calling on the UC Regents to divest endowment and retirement funds from various corporations violating the UC-adopted principles of responsible investment. Most recently, campaigns have been launched to divest UC funds from Mauna Kea, military contractors, corporations violating Palestinian human rights, and more. We believe our contracts present an opportunity to institutionalize these demands and force the university to uphold their commitment to responsible investment.
